in the early days snowflake was so much
more than a traditional data warehouse
but when you're like your name is
snowflake nobody's ever heard who you
are you have absolutely no credibility
to try to go out and say oh this
Enterprise data platform no one would
even believe us and it was better for us
to really break into a category that
already existed a category that people
understood a category that there were
budgets for but if we had tried to say
that we were something BAS bigger we
just wouldn't get the sort of the
traction it would be hard for the sales
team to even get a meeting I think it's
much better to break into an already
existing category with something
significantly better than in the early
days try to do something bigger the most
important thing I would say that we did
well is the extreme consistency was when
you saw snowflake it was always the data
where us built for the cloud anything
whatever it was so we just hammered that
it was a consistency it was the
frequency right that's what made it work
it's almost more important to be
consistent than being 100% right I would
say please welcome car L detri CMO
adviser forly at atlassian Nicole bear
CMO at Carta Gail Moody bird VP
marketing LinkedIn sales Solutions and
Denise Pearson CMO at
snowflake hello uh so nice to see all of
you guys here uh we had a wonderful CMO
brunch earlier today and some some of
you have come and some of you we get to
talk to for the first time I have some
of my favorite people on stage here
today with me because it's one of the
hardest times of the year for marketers
the time of the year where we have to
wrap up an as assessment of what we've
done so far and decide what we're going
to pitch to invest in next year to
really make a difference and this year
is harder than any past years because
the metrics haven't trended consistently
right conversion rates are down
Performance
Marketing is harder than ever many
companies are trying to reach out to new
audiences or with new products or new
verticals or new geographies there's so
many things changing and yet it's a time
of year where we have to propose to the
board the budget we need for next year
and commit to the revenue that we think
we could get with that budget and so uh
I ask these ladies to come on stage and
and talk to me a little bit about how
they're thinking about the changing of
their businesses and where they think
they can invest to get the greatest
growth and one of the things that stood
out to me is as marketers sometimes we
get put into the box or we put ourselves
into the box of talking about marketing
tactics but really these women are
talking about growth tactics they're
really talking about the drivers of the
overall business and then how marketing
will op operationalize those changes
really how the fundamentals of the
product of the AUD audience of the
market is changing Denise let's start
with
you AI has really continued to to change
the nature of your business and yet
there's so much more opportunity than
ever before how are you thinking about
the growth levers for your business this
year and for us we've been through
everything from breaking into Industries
we verticalized the sales organization
and the market organizations we of
course expanded into over 40 countries
right in the last eight years uh We've
that part and for us now our growth next
is really coming from multiproduct
adoption so that's what we are really
focused on and of course AI is a big
part of that so it's our AI offering is
of course growth opportunities for us
also we're really very focus in the
machine learning space so that's really
what we're focused on and therefore
we're very focused on our existing
customers we've really been so focus on
new business right over the years and
we're still of course cor we're not
slowing down there we're at the point
where we need to break into
organizations customer organizations
wider deeper with our new products um
with that as well we're looking at um of
course how do we scale further and uh
also over the years we've invented so
many new products and what we are now is
that we have these big franchise
programs that that we run now all over
the world so right now it's the world to
work in Spring there's another program
in the summer is another one it's a
Evergreen program so at the moment we
just can't invent more it's a focus on
which are the programs that we can scale
even further what are the programs here
we can St scale with our partners it's
all about scaling what we have breaking
into our accounts at a wider and deeper
level that's really where our growth is
going to come from uh next and some of
the changes you've made there have been
organizational to try to align that and
tell us a little bit I as early stage
startups everyone's in the same office
and you all get to talk to each other
and then you get into these functional
teams and then at some point of growth
when you're slowing down inventing new
things you're you either have business
units or regions just tell us a little
bit about how you're thinking
organizationally about aligning people
to those goals and also our headquarter
is right here stia we're in in hybrid
model everyone is in the office three
days a week and the philosopher on here
like headquarters Central versus
decentral Iz ation we really want to
keep the central team as lean as we
possibly can right it's like people it's
like people sales with with a with a
quota and non quota caring people at a
headquarter we have no quota on the
marketing team right the Ral teams they
have have quotas so me our role on the
central team is really only to focus on
those scalable programs uh of course
everything around positioning messaging
the brand sales enable M all those sort
of things but everything else we really
want to push out to the regions so they
have more autonomy and as as it grow in
the early days everyone is wearing
different hats for different things
right and then some people become
leaders and some people become more
specialized and so of course they're
more some of the specialized resources
were more Central right now we have more
special resources out in and apj right
they have product marketing teams now
they have customer marketing they have
partner marketing team they have brand
resources which they didn't have in the
before I really want for us to be able
to move continue to move incredibly fast
the regions cannot just rely on us here
some Mater right that would be a massive
bottleneck so now it's more about more
power to the regions let them move
faster we also work very closely the M
leader apj leader is my direct reports
right we talk several times every week
so they also they are running some
programs that are Global too so some of
our Global training programs is run of
apj because they're so incredibly good
at scaling things sometimes some great
Innovations comes from Europe and they
get to lead that globally so again as
little people at the headquarter as
possible you need to have a quote on the
marketing team but again of course you
want to have be able to have those
shared resources we don't have to redo
things right it's all about Dora and do
it while repurpose and aw yeah so
Effectiveness and
efficiency now karda is in a very
different place right now right Nicole
you guys have had this traditional focus
on the cap table business but now you're
expanding new products and new audiences
so so your growth levers for next year
talk us through how you're thinking yes
so we're very well known as a cap table
business hopefully many of you are CA
customers in the audience if you're a
founder and we're making this uh
strategic transition to creating
software for the office of the fund CFO
we see fund CFOs for VC and for private
Equity as being incredibly underserved
they're still using Excel they're still
using single points of failure with
accountants they use other vendors that
are primarily service forward as opposed
to software forward and we really want
to give our fund CFOs what we think all
CFOs believe which is a true Erp system
so that's really where our strategic
focus is going to be over the next year
and I can say as a CMO it feels so great
to have a singular focus it really does
we're really lading everything we're
doing in marketing in product in sales
into this singular Vision around how
we're going to really fall in love with
the fun CFO and deliver something that
that they've never really had before in
their career and create incredible value
which is what we think we've done for
Founders as well in the cap table
business and so your marketing strategy
is really about a lot of new campaigns
new category work new
audiences all the new yep yeah we've
been we've had uh fund Administration as
part of our product portfolio for some
period of time and things like waterfall
analyses for private Equity but it's
really about coalescing the entire
offering for the fund CFO that we can
then align our marketing organization
around so I'm hiring for product
marketers this is a small plug product
marketers and customer marketing
managers are really important to this
overall Vision really anything that's
going to be at the heart of our this
customer we're focus on which is the
fund CFO as well as deal teams Finance
teams and and accounting teams pretty
and Gail so Gail is the vice president
of marketing for LinkedIn sales
Solutions so she's focused on the aspect
of how companies can use LinkedIn to to
sell better so she's at this interesting
intersection from my
perspective of what are the marketing
strategies that are shaping this coming
and what are the sales strategies that
are shaping this coming year and of
course the pitch for LinkedIn is we help
you know better and Target the exact
right people and interact with them in a
much deeper and more engaged way so you
must have a lot of pressure to do great
marketing and great sales being at the
effer center of it but it sounds like
you too are trying to figure out how do
we like re accelerate growth and which
new levers can we use on the team or as
ACC company to Jud yes um I sit in an
interesting place in LinkedIn because we
are known as a Talent Solutions business
so in the sales Solutions business we
really are a startup within the business
even though we're a billion and a half
dollars hitting upon two billion dollars
so the question is how do we grow how do
we continue that acceleration we think
mining the customer experience so CX is
our path to doing that 90% of our
Revenue plan is working with existing
customers and going deeper one of you
met mentioned penetrating customers and
finding more Pathways more regions more
divisions within an existing
organization so we've firmed up a
priority within our organization that
brings customer success sales life cycle
marketing and product marketing to
understand what are those levers we need
to touch to get greater utilization of
the people who already have our products
making sure that they understand the
value so a lot of time spent on
strategic value reviews making sure that
the onboarding process is clear and we
did a study with Accenture and we looked
at all the customer experience Maps we
had about 15 customer Maps so
everybody's got their own view of the
elephant and thinking about how they're
approaching customers we want to unify
that and make a seamless customer
experience focused on value so that when
it's time for that renewal or that
growth conversation it's very clear that
there's been value delivered that people
are using the tool and that it's
building growth in their organizations
so for us the mantra for the year is
really CX investing in that and really
removing all the barriers that tend to
happen between support customer success
and life cycle marketing so we're pretty
excited about that I think it's a nice
range that we have here scale what's
really working build out a whole bunch
of new things and then create this
experience when we were on the phone we
were debating because in CMO land
category creation is always a a big
question and certainly for a lot of
early stage companies that are trying to
figure out how you talk about your
business everyone should go look up
Denise's saster session from a couple
years ago that was the path from zero to
100 million and it's one of sas's most
popular sessions of all time nice job
Denise had no IDE and but she talks a
little bit about these stages of growth
at Snowflake and how at first they had
to really describe who they were in the
context of the other data warehouses and
databases and then they had this move to
the cloud and at each stage they they
were articulating a little bit
differently and I'll let her talk about
that but also C is working on that and
also LinkedIn is trying to shape like
how do we talk about sales tools and
data are we getting grouped with the
wrong people so let's take a couple
minutes and just talk about it maybe
we'll just go through this order again
but Denise you worked with I think Zoom
marketing on some of your early work and
then did a lot internally but how do you
think about naming your category so that
your customers can understand and buy
the right tools I mean in the early days
snowflake was so much more than a
traditional data
warehouse and but when you're again your
name is snowflake nobody's ever heard
who you are you have absolutely no
credibility to try to go out and say
were this Enterprise data platform no
one would even believe us and uh it
would take too long to explain what we
really do and it was better for us to
really break into a category that people
that already existed a category that
people understood a category that they
were budget for again a new then was
that okay this is a data where it's
built for the cloud and all the
differentiation of snowflake and all the
things you could do now that You' never
been able to do before came from the
fact that were built from the cloud
right and the traditional on pramas or
those have been just migrated into the
cloud they just had major limitations
but if we had tried to say that we were
something B bigger we just wouldn't get
the sort of the traction it would be
hard for the sales team to even get a
meeting right you need to also go after
a market where there are budgets and
actually people buying those products
and they would have spent 30 minutes
trying to understand say what we do and
then the customer say oh oh so you're
like a data warehouse right let's do
that from the beginning and that worked
incredibly well I think it's much better
to break into an already existing
category with something significantly
better than in the early days try to do
something bigger of course the we grow a
lot and then again our customers pulled
us into this we really need like a data
Cloud right that's what we need we need
a data platform that sits across the
clouds and that's how we done more
evolved into the cam the data Cloud
company the data Cloud positioning we
have today but I I will say the most
important thing I would say that we did
well that I have never done well before
or previous companies is the extreme
consistency was when you saw snowflake
it was always the data whereare has
built for the cloud anything whatever it
was so we just hammered that it was a
consistency it was the frequency right
that's what made it work it's almost
more important to be consistent than
being 100% right I would say yeah just
when we get bored of it in marketing
that market has only just started to
hear us right and you had the same
experience so you tried to name
something at a at an earlier stage
startup and you just didn't have the the
money or the traction to get it but then
you've seen success in other experience
right so this is one of my favorite
topics um I've actually been to like the
mothership of category creation if you
follow me on LinkedIn I have an eight
series newsletter about creating a
category so I'll tell you what worked
and what
didn't so my second time working with
category design advisors and creating a
category was at LinkedIn and it was
successful it was actually pretty
transformational for our business we
created a category called Deep
sales it resonated with the market it
got our sales team so excited to have a
North star to talk about and it also
differ differentiated us it was well
chosen because it differentiated us from
shallow selling which was a subtle dig
at our competitors but not an overt dig
so we just found that sweet spot but
because we were LinkedIn because we're
large enough we have a platform that we
can speak to on a daily basis as well as
get our sort of our enthusiasts speaking
about it we had the leverage to make
deep sales a thing that mattered and I
could roll it out to a sales team of
2,000 people we could flood the feed
with it so I had that sort of the share
of voice to create something that was
really meaningful and it was a game
changer for my career at LinkedIn
conversely the first time I did it I was
at a I was CMO at an AI startup and it
was series B and as you were saying we
didn't have the leverage we didn't have
we didn't have the budget we didn't have
the platform we didn't have the scaled
sales team and so it's very hard to
strike in the market when no one knows
who you are you don't really have strong
representation and create something new
so although we really believed in the
positioning we just didn't have the
resources to make it stick and so I
think there's lots of great things about
it but you have to know the sort of the
boundary conditions of when it works and
when it doesn't and I've learned from
both but there's lots of notes in my
newsletter that you'll see on line about
what are the conditions that help it
work really well for a team that has the
scale and one of the best ways is to
extend what you already have right going
from the the data warehous or data
warehouse for the cloud to the data
Cloud to the AI Cloud you're taking more
space incrementally and for Carta you
you're highly respected I have lots of
stock that I log into Carta and I'm an
adviser to a number of of growth
companies and I take equity as part of
my aspect so I'm actually unique in the
market cuz I'm always like seeing
different equity and Equity platforms
but one of the advantages for you is
that you're trying to say we're so much
more than you thought before right how
are you planning to get that message out
to the market this year are you going to
do a lot of in-person experiences are
you doing brand campaigns what's the
investment that will drive that growth
all the things and they're going
actually going to be starting this month
so you will be seeing our new sort of
category defining shaping exercise out
there in the wild soon I'm really
excited about it we've done a ton of
work to think about how do we to your
point like clearly communicate and
consistently communicate what we do in a
way that resonates because the world of
venture capital and private Equity can
be very opaque right to to most people
and we want it to feel like it's very
clear that the value prop is there in
the category as we Define it so yes I'm
really excited we're going to have a lot
com out the next couple months S I don't
think we could have a category or a
session about growth next year without
talking about AI so let's take a couple
minutes to talk about where we see the
biggest opportunities coming Denise you
guys are have seen some good AI Traction
in the SDR organization maybe tell us a
little bit about that and I think
everyone goes through a maturation
Journey here right and May comes back to
it is a data maturation Journey you need
to go through as well and of course
we've been using AI across marketing for
so many years was we have the products
ourselves right but in terms of then
more generative AI where we're seeing
success there has really been on the our
SDR side so we have about 300 sdrs and
they are in seats for 15 months then
they move into inside CS which means
that we're hiring 200 sjs every year so
we have 10 different cohorts in our
sales development Academy joining every
month essentially and for them it's hard
for them to write the right emails and
get the right content so that's where we
we see a massive impact so we're seeing
more than double the meeting rates for
those teams who've been using generative
AI for their messages and their emails
and everything so that's where we can go
in optimize even more and so it's not
even really getting rid of them it's
making them all more productive and and
scaling without scaling all the raising
raising their quotas essentially yeah
yeah yes welcome to the
team that's right how about you guys
where are you experimenting with AI and
where I'm the most excited about
marketing mix modeling from companies
like hockey stack and Olympic that to me
could be a game changer plus I'm so
tired of arguing about
attribution with the various folks this
is can plus up Beyond attribution where
you really can get inputs from a variety
of sort of servfaces and channels
including brand as opposed to just being
the channels that we can identify and
own but across so many different areas
where we can get signal into what's
working with marketing
that to me is like quite literally the
most exciting thing I've heard in
probably 10 years
yeah I the complexity of sales I think
medium modeling gets even more important
we know that it's many touches to many
people to get to get there so I I think
that'll be an exciting part this year
too Gail uh how about you where are you
guys experimenting with AI anywhere
you're seeing
traction I will do this now from my
product point of view as opposed to the
marketing point of view as a really like
a seven-year subsidiary of Microsoft
we've been steeped in AI for a long time
so with the association with open AI
that Microsoft has we have a lot of
Early Access to lots of the tools that
they're building so we're really talking
about our agentic future there'll be
lots more from us over the coming weeks
about that but the way we think about it
is there are lots of tools that are
going to be very efficient at creating
more spam cannons and what we really
want to do is focus
on an AI tool or a set of tools that
really helps you decipher what's
important and what's not and once you
identify those NE next best actions to
have this agentic tool almost your sales
assistant or your marketing assistant do
some of this activity for you and so the
difference between AI features and an
agentic assistant is this agentic
assistant actually starts to take learn
your behaviors learn your priorities and
take actions on your behalf and we are
working furiously which is one of the
reasons we were talking about pmm being
so important we are launching and
testing products at such a rapid rate
that keeping up with all of the
competitive noise around AI is something
that certainly keeps me up at night but
in a good way so we're embracing it full
on and we think it's going to do great
things for the
future last question I think biggest
problem about being a marketer is more
is more with less is there anything this
year that you're going to to dial down
is there any any place that you've
identified we're gonna we're going to
try to do more here and we think that
we're going to do a little bit less here
because there's limited resources and we
have real
tradeoffs we're doing a bit less with
web optimization I think this idea that
someone sees a piece content fills out a
form goes to a website becomes fodder
for an SDR is it's not been an effective
way you talked about declining rates and
we could spend hours and hundreds of
thousands of dollars optimizing web
we're thinking more about building
Community doing a lot of influencer
marketing and doing more one-on-one
because people are so excited to be back
out in the market again so we're dialing
down some of the things that I used to
love like building
websites we're dialing it up on
community that's an important channel
for us and I Define that kind of broadly
but our community of CFOs or community
of
Founders and making events that are very
tailored for them but also straddle
brand to demand I I really tried to
avoid the Trap that many B2B marketers
Focus on on being way too bottom of the
funnel Cal based and remember that we
have to make sure we're covering the
full
funnel anything you guys are diing back
on yeah coming back to where we started
we're dialing down on things we can't
scale right things that we can't
repeat and dialing up on the things we
can scale also again I think one thing
we're investing more in is also our
people significantly more we're
investing a lot in learning on
development we need to take our entire
Workforce and the marketing into the new
as well learn about all these new
technologies and how to be more
efficient and all those sort of things
so learning in development is actually
something where we're scaling up it's
never been a more exciting time I think
to be both in Tech and marketing right
with the changes in SEO and the the
behavior of search I think that's
massively going to change our website
decisions we had I was part of a couple
of other AI panels during the session uh
and one of the discussions was a lot of
what we do now now is trying to use AI
to adapt to our existing paradigms like
how do we just rewrite the sdrs email
better uh and again as we move forward
potentially in an agent landscape
they'll say don't start with the email
start with the LinkedIn notification
or all sorts of things that are going to
be brand new paradigms like the fact
that email is still one of the most
productive marketing paradigms is a joke
when we think about buying email lists
at the beginning of our list it's a
great year of learning and I'm just so
thankful to the saster team for bringing
so many of us together I think let's
give saster a round of applause